[0.71.0] Update the New Architecture guide with the changes for the New Template on Android (#3324)
facebook/react-native-website: docs/new-architecture-app-intro.md

// Run pod install with the flags
RCT_NEW_ARCH_ENABLED=1 pod install
```

## Android - Prerequisites

Using the New Architecture on Android has some prerequisites that you need to meet:

1. Using Gradle version >= 7.x
2. Using Android Gradle Plugin >= 7.x (i.e. the `com.android.tools.build:gradle` dependency)

> If you updated to React Native 0.68+, you already meet those prerequisites. If you don't meet them, consider updating those dependencies first.

Reviewer: should we link to this page in version 0.68 of the doc, to ease the setup of those dependencies?

Author: > to this page in version 0.68 of the doc

I think this would be confusing as users will jump between versions, which might be not expected. Users can also Google 'How to update Gradle' and they'll find instructions on how to do it.

If they bump React Native version, they will also be covered.
That's the reason why I streamlined here.

## Android - React Native Gradle Plugin & Build from Source

The New Architecture relies on the React Native Gradle Plugin (from the `react-native-gradle-plugin` NPM package) to build and run your project.

> Moreover, in this iteration of the guide we will let you build React Native from source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, in this iteration of the guide you will build React Native from source.
```
We are removing all the `we`. @arati-1 to confirm

+       classpath("de.undercouch:gradle-download-task:4.1.2")
    }
}
```

And update the `android/app/build.gradle` file (please note that this file is different than the top level `build.gradle`) as follows:

```diff
dependencies {
  // ...
  if (enableHermes) {
-    def hermesPath = "../../node_modules/hermes-engine/android/";
-    debugImplementation files(hermesPath + "hermes-debug.aar")
-    releaseImplementation files(hermesPath + "hermes-release.aar")
+    //noinspection GradleDynamicVersion
+    implementation("com.facebook.react:hermes-engine:+") { // From node_modules
+        exclude group:'com.facebook.fbjni'
+    }
  }
}

+ configurations.all {
+     resolutionStrategy.dependencySubstitution {
+         substitute(module("com.facebook.react:react-native"))
+                 .using(project(":ReactAndroid"))
+                 .because("On New Architecture we're building React Native from source")
+         substitute(module("com.facebook.react:hermes-engine"))
+                .using(project(":ReactAndroid:hermes-engine"))
+                .because("On New Architecture we're building Hermes from source")
+     }

> + }

Author: > can't we offer a function in the gradle plugin that is reactNativeDependencies that encapsulate this code?

Short answer: we can't.

Long answer: Technically, Gradle plugins can 'expose functions', but this would make this code a little shorter.

```diff
+ configurations.all {
+     resolutionStrategy.dependencySubstitution {
+         applyFunctionFromTheGradlePlugin()
+     }
+ }
```

Which I believe has little value right now, specifically as we should potentially remove the whole `configurations.all {}` block and put it inside the Gradle Plugin as part of the `apply` phase of the plugin (i.e. the plugin will apply this configuration for this project).

So I would refrain from making a change here, that then we'll have to change again in a near future iteration.

> + }

Author: > can always add another configuration.all call after we setup our default settings for further customization, right?

Also this is sadly not true. If we take ownership of this and apply a `configurations.all.resolutionStrategy` directive, we're effectively imposing this change for all the users.

This means that users on Old Architecture, can't build from source anymore if they wish: https://reactnative.dev/contributing/how-to-build-from-source

```

## Android - Configure the NDK

:::caution

> In this iteration of the guide we’re setting up the project to let you build from source. You might notice an increase in your build time because of this.

Author: I'd like to mention that is 'temporary' to some extent, so maybe any other wording would also work

```groovy
android {
    // ...

    def reactAndroidProjectDir = project(':ReactAndroid').projectDir
    def packageReactNdkLibs = tasks.register("packageReactNdkLibs", Copy) {
        dependsOn(":ReactAndroid:packageReactNdkLibsForBuck")
        dependsOn("generateCodegenArtifactsFromSchema")
        from("$reactAndroidProjectDir/src/main/jni/prebuilt/lib")
        into("$buildDir/react-ndk/exported")
    }

    afterEvaluate {
        preBuild.dependsOn(packageReactNdkLibs)
        configureCMakeRelWithDebInfo.dependsOn(preReleaseBuild)
        configureCMakeDebug.dependsOn(preDebugBuild)
    }

    packagingOptions {
        pickFirst '**/libhermes.so'
        pickFirst '**/libjsc.so'
    }
}
```

Finally, we need to create two files that are necessary for your native build to run correctly:

- A CMake file with the compilation instructions (similar to a `build.gradle` for Android/Java)
- An `OnLoad.cpp` file which, as the name says, will be loaded when your app starts.

Let's create a file inside the `android/app/src/main/jni` folder called `CMakeLists.txt` with the following content:

> ```cmake title="CMakeLists.txt"

Author: > I have the feeling that it will be easier not to miss those changes. Otherwise people will copy the whole file and may miss any required change.

There are no required changes. I've just copied over the file here.
And yes, I can suggest them to `cp` from the template, but I would rather deeplink on Github at this stage (as you can't assume that users have updated to 0.71.0).

  // is similar to the following (for a library called `samplelibrary`):
  //
  // auto module = samplelibrary_ModuleProvider(moduleName, params);
  // if (module != nullptr) {
  //    return module;
  // }
  // return rncore_ModuleProvider(moduleName, params);

  // By default we just use the module providers autolinked by RN CLI
  return rncli_ModuleProvider(name, params);
}

} // namespace react
} // namespace facebook

JNIEXPORT jint JNICALL JNI_OnLoad(JavaVM *vm, void *) {
  return facebook::jni::initialize(vm, [] {
    facebook::react::DefaultTurboModuleManagerDelegate::
        moduleProvidersFromEntryPoint = &facebook::react::provideModules;
    facebook::react::DefaultComponentsRegistry::
        registerComponentDescriptorsFromEntryPoint =
            &facebook::react::registerComponents;
  });
}
```

When the app loads, this file will take care of registering the Native Components and Modules which provide native sources. By default we just provide the autolinked libraries as this allows you to use those libraries.

This is the only C++ file you'll have to add to your project, and the infrastructure will take care of the rest.

## Android - Update your Java classes

> In order to make easier to enable the New Architecture on Android, we created some utility classes that you can use and will take care of all the setup without you having to worry about it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simplify how to enable the New Architecture on Android, you can use some utility classes that will take care of all the setup without you having to worry about it.
```

Those classes are all located inside the `com.facebook.react.defaults` package and are all named `Defaults*`.

### Update the React Native Host

> First, let's update your `ReactNativeHost` as follows (usually located in your `MainApplication.java` file):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, update your `ReactNativeHost` as follows (usually located in your `MainApplication.java` file):
```

<Tabs groupId="android-language" defaultValue={constants.defaultAndroidLanguage} values={constants.androidLanguages}>
<TabItem value="java">

```diff title="MainApplication.java"
+import com.facebook.react.defaults.DefaultReactNativeHost;

   private final ReactNativeHost mReactNativeHost =
-      new ReactNativeHost(this) {
+      new DefaultReactNativeHost(this) {

         @Override
         public boolean getUseDeveloperSupport() {
           return BuildConfig.DEBUG;
         }

+        @Override
+        public boolean isNewArchEnabled() {
+          return true;
+        }
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="kotlin">

```diff title="MainApplication.kt"
+import com.facebook.react.defaults.DefaultReactNativeHost

   val reactNativeHost =
-      ReactNativeHost(this) {
+      DefaultReactNativeHost(this) {

         override fun getUseDeveloperSupport() = BuildConfig.DEBUG
+        override fun isNewArchEnabled() = true

       }
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Update the your application OnCreate

> Still inside your `MainApplication` method `onCreate`, we need to make sure that the New Architecture infrastructure is loaded correctly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Still inside your `MainApplication` method `onCreate`, make sure that the New Architecture infrastructure is loaded correctly:
```

<Tabs groupId="android-language" defaultValue={constants.defaultAndroidLanguage} values={constants.androidLanguages}>
<TabItem value="java">

```diff title="MainApplication.java"
+import com.facebook.react.defaults.DefaultNativeEntryPoint;

  @Override
  public void onCreate() {
    super.onCreate();
    SoLoader.init(this, /* native exopackage */ false);
    // Make sure it's called after SoLoader.init
+   ReactFeatureFlags.useTurboModules = true;
+   DefaultNativeEntryPoint.load();
    ReactNativeFlipper.initializeFlipper(this, getReactNativeHost().getReactInstanceManager());
  }
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="kotlin">

```diff title="MainApplication.kt"
+import com.facebook.react.defaults.DefaultNativeEntryPoint

  override fun onCreate() {
    super.onCreate()
    SoLoader.init(this, /* native exopackage */ false)
    // Make sure it's called after SoLoader.init
+   ReactFeatureFlags.useTurboModules = true
+   DefaultNativeEntryPoint.load()
    ReactNativeFlipper.initializeFlipper(this, getReactNativeHost().getReactInstanceManager());
  }
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Update your Activity Delegate

> Finally, let's update your `MainActivity.java` file by providing a React Activity Delegate:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, update your `MainActivity.java` file by providing a React Activity Delegate:
```
